# Real World React Chat App using FirebaseApp Platform

1. User has to authentify himself/herself by signing with his/her Facebook or Google account to connect to the real world chat application.
2. User can click on Dashboard button to view his/her personal details where he/she can update his/her nickname and profile avatar. User has option to connect with multiple accounts. If he/she is already connected to Facebook, then he/she can also link to Google and vice versa. User can sign out anytime and re-login to his/her account using same credentials as before.
3. User can create new chat room by specifying name and description. Only the admin of a particular room has the authority to access the Editable Drawer (represented by letter A in red color) and edit the room details. Other users can only view room information by clicking on Room Information button.
4. User can see each other's current status represented by the dot. Green dot represents that the user is currently active/online, red dot represents that user is currently offline and when he/she was last online. There is also a gray dot in case if the status of that particular user is unknown.
5. User can send text messages by typing in the message box below and pressing ENTER. User can also attach files (images or PDFs) of max-size 5MB and maximum 5 at a time, by clicking on attachment button. User can also send audio recording by clicking on microphone button to start recording and releasing it to send the audio.
6. User can also add/remove likes for a particular message, like Facebook or Instagram and can also see number of likes on a particular message.  Like option is represented by a heart which is accessed by hovering on a given message.
7. User can also delete his/her message if he/she feels it as inappropriate by clicking on cross (X) button, which like like button, is also accessed by hovering on a given message. On clicking delete button, user is asked whether he/she is sure that he/she wants to delete that message. User has to confirm OK to delete that message. Users can delete his/her messages only, not each others.
8. User can at a given time, can view only at the most 15 messages at a time in a particular room. To view more messages, he/she has to click on Load more button. User is automatically scrolled down, whenever he/she adds new message.
9. Admin users can broadcast messages and send notifications to other users. Other users can see a button on top right corner, asking for the permission to broadcast messages. If he/she confirms YES, then he/she can also broadcast messages.

https://chat-web-app-ebca8.web.app/
